[Don't merge] Release 3.1.0 (#670)
apache/pulsar-site: release-notes/versioned/pulsar-3.1.0.md

---
id: pulsar-3.1.0
title: Apache Pulsar 3.1.0
sidebar_label: Apache Pulsar 3.1.0
---

#### 2023-08-10

### Important notice
-

### PIPs
- PIP-275:Introduce topicOrderedExecutorThreadNum to deprecate numWorkerThreadsForNonPersistentTopic [#20504](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20504)
- PIP-255 Part-2: Make the partition assignment strategy pluggable [#20537](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20537)

### Broker

> - Fix MessageDeduplication throw NPE when enable broker dedup and set namespace disable deduplication. [#20905](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20905)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix MessageDeduplication throw NPE when enabling broker deduplication and disabling namespace deduplication. [#20905](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20905)
```

- Pass `bytesToRead` when reading compacted entries [#20850](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20850)
- Fix the built-in admin failed to delete a topic with a custom authz provider [#20848](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20848)
- Avoid print redirect exception log when get list from bundle [#20846](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20846)
- Inconsistent behaviour for topic auto_creation [#20843](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20843)
- Follow up 4196 use `PulsarByteBufAllocator` handle OOM [#20837](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20837)
- Add broker filter sync method back to guarantee the API compatibility [#20826](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20826)
- Fix direct memory leak by delayed index OutOfDirectMemory [#20823](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20823)
- Avoid infinite bundle unloading [#20822](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20822)
- Add the MessageExpirer interface to make code clear [#20800](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20800)
- Broker failed to load v1 namespace resources cache [#20783](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20783)

> - Can not receive any messages after switch to standby cluster [#20767](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20767)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cannot receive any messages after switching to a standby cluster [#20767](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20767)
```

- Fix get topic policies as null during clean cache [#20763](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20763)
- Fix typo in ServerCnx.java [#20762](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20762)
- Avoid throwing RestException in BrokerService [#20761](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20761)
- Call ServerCnxcloseProducer from correct thread [#20747](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20747)
- Ignore openIDTokenIssuerTrustCertsFilePath conf when blank [#20745](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20745)
- Support pluggable topic compaction service - part2 [#20718](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20718)
- Revert "Skip loading broker interceptor when disableBrokerInterceptors is true 20422" [#20710](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20710)
- Gracefully shutdown does not work with admin cli in standalone [#20709](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20709)
- Improve CompactedTopicImpl lock [#20697](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20697)
- Added the skipped message handler for ServiceUnitStateChannel [#20677](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20677)
- Make ExtensibleLoadManagerImpl's broker filter pure async [#20666](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20666)

> - Add log on topic or subscription when enable rate limit. [#20660](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20660)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add logs for topics or subscriptions when enabling rate limit. [#20660](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20660)
```

- Make get list from bundle Admin API async [#20652](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20652)
- Fix the publish latency spike from the contention of MessageDeduplication [#20647](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20647)
- Support pluggable topic compaction service - part1 [#20645](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20645)
- Fix get owned service units NPE [#20625](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20625)

> - Topic policy can not be work well if replay policy message has any exception. [#20613](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20613)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Topic policy cannot work well if the replay policy message has any exceptions. [#20613](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20613)
```

> - Fix the publish latency spike issue with large number of producers [#20607](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20607)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix the publish latency spike issue with a large number of producers [#20607](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20607)
```

- AuthenticationFilter.doFilter [#20598](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20598)

> - Fix NPE when reset Replicator's cursor by position. [#20597](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20597)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix NPE when resetting Replicator's cursor by position. [#20597](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20597)
```

- Handle heartbeat namespace in ExtensibleLoadManager [#20551](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20551)
- Validate authz earlier in delete subscription logic [#20549](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20549)
- Should not throw NotFoundException when metadata already exists. [#20539](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20539)
- REST Client Producer fails with TLS only [#20535](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20535)
- Fix redirect loop when using ExtensibleLoadManager and list in bundle admin API [#20528](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20528)
- Restore solution for certain topic unloading race conditions [#20527](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20527)
- Emit the namespace bundle listener event on extensible load manager [#20525](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20525)
- Choose random thread for consumerFlow in PersistentDispatcherSingleActiveConsumer [#20522](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20522)
- Disable EntryFilters for system topics [#20514](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20514)
- Support get/remove permissions for AuthorizationProvider [#20496](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20496)

> - Improve efficiency of checking message deletion [#20490](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20490)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve the efficiency of checking message deletion [#20490](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20490)
```

- Reformat property in generateResponseWithEntry [#20481](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20481)
- Add metric prefix for `topic_load_times` [#20472](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20472)
- Fix return the earliest position when query position by timestamp. [#20457](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20457)
- Support revoking permission for AuthorizationProvider [#20456](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20456)
- Replace String.intern() with Guava Interner [#20432](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20432)

> - Remove uneffective solution for reducing GC pressure [#20428](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20428)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove ineffective solution for reducing GC pressure [#20428](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20428)
```

- Fix pre-create non-partitioned system topics for load balance extension [#20370](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20370)
- Fix memory leak when rebatchMessage [#20369](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20369)
- Invalidate metadata children cache after key deleted [#20363](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20363)
- Fix managedLedger.getConfig().getProperties().putAll(properties) NPE [#20361](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20361)
- Update rest endpoint method names to avoid swagger conflict [#20359](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20359)
- Fix broker load manager class filter NPE [#20350](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20350)
- Copy BrokerEntryMetadata when rebatchMessage [#20337](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20337)
- In Key_Shared mode: remove unnecessary mechanisms of message skip to avoid unnecessary consumption stuck [#20335](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20335)
- When creating a namespace anti-affinity group with the default local policies, use the bundle size supplied by the user. [#20327](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20327)

> - Fix skip message API when hole messages exists [#20326](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20326)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix skip message API when hole messages exist [#20326](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20326)
```

- Gracefully shut down load balancer extension [#20315](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20315)
- Fix class name typo `PrecisPublishLimiter` to "Precise" [#20310](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20310)
- Allow Access to System Topic Metadata for Reader Creation Post-Namespace Deletion [#20304](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20304)
- Fix NPE cause by topic publish rate limiter. [#20302](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20302)
- Remove Streaming Dispatcher Code [#20279](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20279)

> - Fix `UnsupportedOperationException` when update topic properties. [#20261](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20261)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix `UnsupportedOperationException` when updating topic properties. [#20261](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20261)
```

- Make timer execute immediately after load index [#20126](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20126)
- Cache LedgerHandle in BookkeeperBucketSnapshotStorage [#20117](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20117)
- Pin AppendIndexMetadataInterceptor to field in `ManagedLedgerInterceptorImpl` [#20112](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20112)
- Close temporary open ledger in BookkeeperBucketSnapshotStorage [#20111](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20111)
- Fix use error TimeUnit to record publish latency [#20074](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20074)
- Fix the reason label of authentication metrics [#20030](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20030)
- Save createIfMissing in TopicLoadingContext [#19993](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19993)
- Log resource usage rate of brokers that need to be offloaded in ThresholdShedder [#19983](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19983)
- Fix getPartitionedStats miss subscription's messageAckRate [#19870](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19870)
- Fix wrong logic of method TopicName.getPartition(int index) [#19841](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19841)

> - Fix `Update contains no change` error when use `--update-auth-data` flag to update function/sink/source [#19450](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19450)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix `Update contains no change` error when using `--update-auth-data` flag to update function/sink/source [#19450](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19450)
```

- Add `topic_load_failed` metric [#19236](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19236)
- Support getStats/update partitioned topic with `-partition-` [#19235](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19235)

> - Do not filter system topic while shedding. [#18949](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/18949)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do not filter system topics while shedding. [#18949](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/18949)
```

- If ledger lost, cursor mark delete position can not forward [#18620](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/18620)
- Do not grant permission for each partition to reduce unnecessary zk metadata [#18222](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/18222)
- Support cgroup v2 by using `jdk.internal.platform.Metrics` in Pulsar Loadbalancer [#16832](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/16832)

> ### Clients

Reviewer: replicate with the client's release notes.. does it make more sense to add a link instead?

Author: fixed

- thread-safe seek [#20321](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20321)
- Document Java Client's Seek logic thread-safety improved in 20242 [#20284](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20284)
- Fix where the function getMsgNumInReceiverQueue always returns 0 when using message listener [#20245](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20245)
- Java Client's Seek Logic Not Threadsafe 1 [#20242](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20242)
- SchemaDefinition handle JSR310_CONVERSION_ENABLED property [#20201](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20201)
- Enable custom Encrypt/Decrypt Methods for ReaderImplementation. [#12599](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12599)

### Pulsar IO and Pulsar Functions
- [IO] Not restart instance when kafka source poll exception. [#20795](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20795)
- [IO] Add notifyError method on PushSource. [#20791](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20791)
- [IO] elastic-search sink connector not support JSON.String schema. [#20741](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20741)
- [IO] Close the kafka source connector got stuck [#20698](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20698)

> - [IO] Close the kafka source connector if there is uncaught exception [#20424](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20424)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [IO] Close the Kafka source connector if there is an uncaught exception [#20424](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20424)
```

- [IO] add protobuf ByteString to pulsar-io jdbc core [#20259](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20259)
- [IO] KCA: handle kafka sources that use commitRecord [#20121](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20121)
- [IO] Fix the wrong format of the logs [#20907](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20907)
- [IO] Remove useless configuration for Pulsar SQL [#20605](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20605)
- [IO] Some optimized points in 9224 [#19027](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19027)

> - [FN] Exit JVM when main thread throws exception [#20689](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20689)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [FN] Exit JVM when the main thread throws exceptions [#20689](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20689)
```

- [CLI] Fix logging noise while admin tool exit [#19884](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19884)
- [CLI] PerformanceProducer do not produce expected number of messages. [#19775](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19775)
- [CLI] Pulsar-perf: refactor to reduce code duplication [#19279](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19279)

### Others
- [TXN] Add log when can't send TcClientConnectRequest to broker. [#20880](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20880)
- [TXN] Use PulsarResource check for topic existence instead of brokerservice.getTopic() [#20569](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20569)
- [TXN] Unwrap the completion exception. [#20396](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20396)
- [TXN] Implement compatibility for transaction buffer segmented snapshot feature upgrade [#20235](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20235)
- [TXN] Fix transaction is not aborted when send or ACK failed [#20055](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20055)
- [TXN] fix consumer can receive aborted txn message when readType is replay [#19815](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19815)
- [ML] cleanup numManagedLedgerWorkerThreads [#20454](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20454)

> - [ML] Fix ledger left in OPEN state when enable `inactiveLedgerRollOverTimeMs` [#20276](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20276)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ML] Fix ledger left in OPEN state when enabling `inactiveLedgerRollOverTimeMs` [#20276](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20276)
```

- [META] Bookie Info lost by notification race condition. [#20642](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20642)
- [META] Adding the missed bookie id in the registration manager. [#20641](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20641)
- [META] Upgrade to jetcd to 0.7.5 [#20339](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20339)
- [META] Switch to the metadata store thread after zk operation [#20303](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20303)
- [META] deadlock of zkSessionWatcher when zkConnection loss [#20122](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20122)
- [META] Support set metadata size threshold for compression. [#19561](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19561)
- [WS] Add cryptoKeyReaderFactoryClassName into the file websocket.conf [#20840](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20840)
- [WS] Remove unnecessary ping/pong implementation [#20733](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20733)
- [WS] Use allowTopicOperationAsync for authz checks [#20299](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20299)
- [WS] Use async auth method to support OIDC [#20238](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20238)

> - [MISC] Stop logging full stacktrace when `SecurityUtility.loadConscryptProvider()` fails to find Conscrypt with unknown error [#20705](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20705)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MISC] Stop logging full stack trace when `SecurityUtility.loadConscryptProvider()` fails to find Conscrypt with an unknown error [#20705](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20705)
```

- Upgrade prometheus client_golang to v1.12.2 to fix CVE-2022-21698 [#20579](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20579)
- Upgrade Netty to 4.1.93.Final [#20423](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20423)
- Upgrade to jetcd to 0.7.5 [#20339](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20339)
- Upgrade Kotlin version from 1.4.32 to 1.8.20. (targeted for master) [#20114](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20114)

### Documentation
- Correcting spelling mistakes in the pulsar-broker module [#20798](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20798)
- Fix doc of admin cli create-subscription [#20680](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20680)
- Change the method of generating reference docs titles. [#20557](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20557)
- Improve doc for delayed message [#20374](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20374)
- Correcting spelling mistakes [#20340](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20340)
- Correcting spelling mistakes [#20329](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20329)
- ConnectorDocGenerator support Java 9+ [#20100](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/20100)
- Add link to PIP proposal [#19911](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/19911)

> Here are the most noteworthy changes in this release.

Reviewer: Should this sentence be moved to row 263? And the highlights may need an update to include the docs for the new Load Balancer? //cc @Anonymitaet

Reviewer 2: @momo-jun thanks for your reminder, yes, it should include the new Load Balancer doc

Reviewer 2: @Technoboy- noteworthy doc changes should be pulled from the pulsar-site repo rather than the pulsar repo

For the complete list, including all features, enhancements, and bug fixes, check out the following resources.

- [Documentation merged in 3.1 (pulsar-site repo)](https://github.com/apache/pulsar-site/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A3.1.0+)

> > A special thanks to the following contributors (alphabetic Github IDs) who contributed to Pulsar 3.0.0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A special thanks to the following contributors (alphabetic Github IDs) who contributed to Pulsar 3.1.0:
```
